Anthro 102 student from Dr. Suarez class on the mic. This song is called Five Forces of Evolution, and I'm going to go through each force one through five. I want to give a huge shout out to Dr. Suarez for consistently delivering quality lectures throughout this entire crazy semester that was plagued by the COVID-19 virus. It's a blessing getting to learn from someone who's so passionate about what he is teaching, and that passion rubbed off on me a little bit and inspired me to write this song.

Yeah. Hey, we got the five forces of evolution. This ain't Palomar. It's a freaking real institution. There's five not four. So get ready to know how these species change when Earth continues to grow.

We got the deep time to lead to changes long term. These female generations, they don't want the wrong sperm. There's other reasons why humans change in time. So sit back, relax while I teach you with these rhymes.

Natural selection is number one.

Yeah, there's three types to know. Memorize this song. There's directional, stabilizing, artificial. DSA, go learn these three initials.

D-directional is about traits and populations. Push for frequency, traits, effects, reproduction. S-stabilizing is phenotypic deviation. Maintain the phenotype within a population.

A-artificial is human-driven, like how we breed dogs in domestication.

That's the thing.

That's the three. DSA, abbreviation. Don't ignore these facts, like believers in creation. Yeah, sexual selection is that number two. Remember that number, man number two.

Because there's two types that you better learn. Intra and inter sound so similar, but they are not. They're different competitions. Two separate things to make these ladies pay attention.

Now, intersexual's about the good looks, like a peacock's feather making fiends.

Male, shucked and pissed off, darn, cuz it made no sense. It can't help survival, but the sperm, it depends on how good those tail feathers gleam.

Y'all got these female peacocks, won't scream.

Intrasexual is male versus male. They fight one another, see who can prevail. Whoever wins gets a sexy chick. He gets dissatisfied when he pinch a ten.

Yeah.

Now, this the real world.

A man you gotta respect.

All of these females who wanna slay Yeah, the males with the best of lails

The males who goes and shows that they got the appeal

Yeah, let's switch to gene flow And that is the third

Alleles migrate like it's winter for a bird And what this does is entrench a variation

Which can cut down gene differentiation This exchange creates a larger gene pool

And if you really think about it, kinda seems cool

That's when species migrate Yeah, they carry those genes

They don't have to accidentally inbreed Yeah, genetic drift is fourth out of five

A whole lot harder keeping bloodlines alive Is much more common in the smaller populations

Less mating means reduced variations And when a large population carries alleles

In a subset, it's on your chest That's the founder effect

Now number five, mutation is last

And it's one big thing

And it's one big reason why creation is trash

Yeah, how do you explain how alleles change?

Can't scratch your head, say that it's strange You must admit, hey, alleles have changed

Yeah, when we found this out, man, it changed the game

But man, it's evidence that we're not heaven sent

Magnet norm, in fact, is just negligent

So that's my rap, I hope it all was clear And it helps your final at the end of the year